DOC Link field User manual (#234)
silverstripe/silverstripe-linkfield: docs/en/userguide/02_work_with_link_field.md

---

> title: Essential functionalities associated with the link field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Using the link field
```
It's really about "how do I use this" rather than "what can this thing do?"
Please also change the title below and any references to this page.

Author: Updated

> summary: How to work with the Link field and Multi Link field in the CMS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: How to work with the link field and multi-ink field in the CMS.
```

Author: Updated

---

# Essential functionalities associated with the Link field

> Previous sections provided fundamental knowledge for creating links. In contrast, this section will delve into the specifics of Likfeld, offering insights into its functionalities like sorting and deletion, essential for effective link management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previous sections provided fundamental knowledge for creating links. In contrast, this section will delve into the specifics of link field, offering insights into its functionalities like sorting and deletion, essential for effective link management.
```

Author: Updated

> The LinkField module offers two primary types of fields: one for creating a single link and the other for generating multiple links. While there are some differences in how these fields operate, let's first outline the key aspects that are common to both types of fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The LinkField module offers two primary types of fields: one for managing a single link and the other for managing multiple links. While there are some differences in how these fields operate, let's first outline the key aspects that are common to both types of fields.
```

Author: Updated

> > [!NOTE]
> > Any information entered is automatically saved upon the creation of a new link or when updates are made to the link data by the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any information entered is automatically saved upon the creation of a new link or when updates are made to the link data by the user.
```
I don't think this needs a big callout - it's just more regular information about links.

Author: Updated

> > Any information entered is automatically saved upon the creation of a new link or when updates are made to the link data by the user.

Reviewer: Add something after this about needing to publish the page to publish links.

Author: Updated

> [!NOTE]

> > Once created, the user is unable to modify the link type. To establish a different type of link, the user must initiate a new creation process from the beginning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Once created, the user is unable to modify the link type. To change a link to a different type, the user must delete the existing link and create a new one.
```

Author: Updated

> ## Single Link field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Single link field
```

Author: Updated

![A screenshot of the single link field](./_images/single_link_field.png)

> The Single LinkField module is designed for managing individual links. To create a new link, users can click on the "Add link" button and select the desired link type from the dropdown menu. This action opens a modal window where users can input the necessary information for creating the link. For detailed information about the default link types, please refer to the ["Link Types"](./01_links_types.md) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The single link field is designed for managing individual links. To create a new link, users can click on the "Add link" button and select the desired link type from the dropdown menu. This action opens a modal window where users can input the necessary information for creating the link. For detailed information about the default link types, please refer to the ["Link Types"](./01_links_types.md) section.
```

Author: Updated

> Once a new link is created, basic information about it will be displayed in the Link field.

Reviewer: This paragraph should probably go after "let's first outline the key aspects that are common to both types of fields"

Author: Updated

> To view more detailed information or make changes to an existing link, users need to click the Link field button again. This action opens the modal window where adjustments can be made. If no changes are required, users can simply close the modal window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view more detailed information or make changes to an existing link, click anywhere on the link details. This opens the modal window where adjustments can be made. If no changes are required, users can simply close the modal window.
```

Author: Updated

> To view more detailed information or make changes to an existing link, users need to click the Link field button again. This action opens the modal window where adjustments can be made. If no changes are required, users can simply close the modal window.

Reviewer: This paragraph should probably go after "let's first outline the key aspects that are common to both types of fields"

Author: Updated

> ## Multi Link field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Multi link field
```

Author: Updated

![A screenshot of the multilink field](./_images/multi_link_field.png)

> The MultiLink Field functions similarly to the Single Link Field but offers notable advantages. Users can create various links and easily manage them within a single field. Additionally, they can conveniently sort the links as needed, enhancing usability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The multi link field functions similarly to the single link field, but with multiple links. Users can create various links and easily manage them within a single field. Additionally, they can sort the links as needed. The order of links in the field will be the order they're displayed on the front end.
```

Author: Updated

### Sorting multi link field

Let's explore an example demonstrating how users can arrange created links using the Drag & Drop feature.
When hovering the mouse cursor over a link to be moved, it will visually highlight.

![A screenshot of the multilink field](./_images/reorder_links_1.png)

By clicking and holding the left mouse button while over the link, one can drag it to the desired position. After releasing the mouse button, all existing links will adjust accordingly.

![A screenshot of the multilink field](./_images/reorder_links_2.png)

New changes will be automatically saved, and modified links will be identified.

![A screenshot of the multilink field](./_images/reorder_links_3.png)

> ## Delete Link

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Delete links
```

Author: Updated

> The user has the ability to remove an existing link by clicking on the "Archive" button. Upon doing so, the link will be deleted, and the change will be automatically saved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can remove an existing link by clicking on the "Archive" button.
```
Probably most of the places where these docs say "the user" should be swapped to "you", but I'm not too worried about the ones I haven't specifically called out.

Removed the bit about the link being deleted - it's not deleted, just archived. So that's covered by saying "the archive button".

Author: Updated

![A screenshot of the multilink field](./_images/delete_button.png)

> ## Disabled or Read only links

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Disabled or read-only links
```

Author: Updated

> ## Disabled or Read only links

Reviewer: This section should probably go after "let's first outline the key aspects that are common to both types of fields" (before the single field stuff)

Author: Updated

> At times, it's necessary to limit certain users' access to creating, editing or removing links. Consequently, editing capabilities for these links will be disabled, rendering them available to users solely in read-only mode. Additionally, users won't be able to reorder  these links if they were created using Multi Link field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a user doesn't have the right permissions for editing a link (usually because they can't edit the page the link is on), editing capabilities for these links will be disabled. This is usually referred to as read-only mode. In read-only mode, links cannot be edited, archived, or reordered - but all of the information about them can be viewed.
```

Author: Updated
